Did anybody give you any advice what you would
claim or not claim on your expense account? Well,
you mentioned Perdim. I believe we pretty well
actually gave. We had to have receipts. As I
recall, we had to have actual expenses. You didn't
claim just $8, $20 worth today. You had to submit
receipts for most everything. And that's the way,
I don't even remember if we had per diem versus
just, it was a maximum, I'm sure it was a maximum.
But did anybody make it clear you couldn't claim
beer? Oh, yeah, yeah, no, you couldn't claim those
kinds. No drinks, yeah, right. Or parking was a
problem. In those early days, how often did a
graduate student go along? Oh, well, it wasn't
infrequent. I remember Ed Smith and I going to the
Valley, to do research on grapefruit, and another
guy and I going to West Texas. Graduate students
were pretty well integrated into the research
process. Yeah, we used them frequently. And there
used to be a lot more original data gathering. I
don't know of anybody now who goes out and does
field survey work. I can't think of anybody doing
that now. Whereas then it was common,
particularly in the summertime. That's what you
spent your summers doing. You were surveying
households or you were surveying farmers.
Describe that. That's important. Well, you
actually went out and did a survey like you did
house to house schedules. If you're doing dairy
consumption, you would go to Stephenville or
someplace and take a survey. You know, dear madam,
may I interview you? I've got this questionnaire.
How much milk do you buy in a week and how do you use it
and blah blah blah. Primary data right from the
consumer. Now most of our data comes from
secondary sources. How would you have selected,
in such a survey, how would you have selected this
town instead of some other town? depending on what
the study was, but you'd try to find a
representative quote-unquote town, and then
within that town, you'd do a sample, either from
the phone book or the city directory or something.
You could do a sample or a stratified sample, so it
supposedly was representative. But you actually
went door-to-door. And the same thing with
producers, farmers. Like up in some county in, you
know, West Texas or wherever, they would do a
sample of farmers to find out what their
production practices were, and you went
head-to-head with the farmer. Do you remember any
interesting... Response you got from a on a survey
conversation No, people were pretty
cooperative. I don't know producer told you it was
none of your business I Didn't because I wasn't
doing production Surveys, but I can remember
getting that response from marketing firms I mean
sometimes they'd like to get told you the guy about
ran me out of his office and Or they simply said,
we're not interested in cooperating. That's our
business, not yours. And so you just left those
people alone. When you or someone was doing that,
from what institution or what organization did
you all identify yourself as being? What did you
say you were from? Well, we'd be from the Texas
Agricultural Experiment Station, was who was
funding that research. And then we had some kind of
ID, I don't know, a card or a letter, How soon did you
mention Texas A&M? Oh, right up front, first
thing. And what was their reaction? Usually very
favorable. Yeah, if A&M had a good image, yeah. And
did anybody before you went out suggest how you
should dress? Well, we sort of, yeah. Yes, that was
made clear, if you didn't understand it, that you
dressed very professionally, and probably with a
tie on, depending on the time. Even in the summer, I
suppose you'd have a tie on. Probably a name tag
that would identify you. How soon after you
arrived here did you have some results of some of
that field work that made you feel good? Published
or paper or read or something or other? Well,
within a, I know with, let's see, I believe it was
the first summer I was here, we did a big foray to the
valley to work on marketing orders. And we used to
publish what are called departmental reports.
And then generally, hopefully, those would
evolve into a journal article. So I believe by that
fall, I had something worked up. We had a good
experience in the valley with the fruits and
vegetable people. And I believe I had something
worked up on carrots.
Maybe it took as long as a year. The pressure wasn't
as great then to get things, get them out. And of
course, it wasn't as fast either. They didn't have
computers. It was six copies of everything if you
wanted to copy something with carbons and so on.
But things moved slower. Everybody moves more
slowly in terms of getting things published. It
took longer. And so I would say within a, I think I
got satisfaction probably within the first six
months or so in terms of, yeah, this is probably
worthwhile, what we're doing here. And when did
you first do something that Ty Tim or somebody in a
position of responsibility patted you on the
back, or maybe in the pocketbook too. Well, that
would have been the trip to the valley where we met
with the powers that be down there, mostly big
producers and some of the marketing people, the
packers, and talked to them about their situation
as far as the marketing orders went and how
important they were. I remember we had a big
meeting at some big motel in McAllen and it was well
attended and we put on a slide show and so on and I got
the impression that they were I was told that we did
a good job and they were favorably impressed and
that sort of was a good launching pad but it was it
was a it was a dog and pony show is what it was it
wasn't a professional session or anything and at
the end of that first semester do you remember any
kind of evaluation or no no well I say no, but I'm not
sure. It seems like forever we passed out these
sheets, one through ten, where people rated you on
about 18 things, but I don't know if they ever went
to anybody. You just passed them out for your own
amusement, and it wasn't until many, many years
later that they started actual formal
evaluations where they went with your packet to be
reviewed by the head. Did Dr. Tim in the early
years... Did he ever call you in and give you an
evaluation, tell you what you were doing well or
not so well? Yeah, I believe he did that about once a
year. He'd have a session that kind of told you what
they thought was going on. I remember McNeely
called me in one time, and I had begun to work with
Marshall Godwin came in from Florida. He was a hot
item, and we'd set up a little... camp down in the
corner of the building, Lonnie Jones and Marshall
Goddard and myself and somebody else, and he was
going to lead us into big things in marketing. But
we weren't moving very fast. I remember McNeely
called me in and kind of chewed on me once, which was
good for me because I should have had that from the
start, that we're not getting enough done here and
so on and so forth. And so that was a good reprimand.
Not reprimand so much as encouragement, I guess
you'd say. Describe this man, Ty Tim. Ty Tim from
Hallisville, Texas, raised by his aunts, as I
recall, a kind of a bear of a man, very gregarious,
garrulous, hail-hardy, well-met fellow. all
smiling all the time. And I've heard Ty say, I'll
take care of you right after I take care of myself.
Only half in jest, I think. Everybody, I think,
loved Ty. At least you liked Ty, whether you liked
what he was doing. He got his doctorate of public
administration at Harvard, which I think he
always kind of felt slightly second class because
he didn't have a PhD. But he wanted you to know that
he had this degree from Harvard Maybe he even had a
master's of public administration from Harvard.
But he was an operator. I know when I first got here
the first summer, I got to teach ag policy to a bunch
of guys who were older than I was. I was 28 years old.
No, 29 at that time. And because Ty wanted to go to
Colorado, where it was cool. And he did. And I did.
But he would take care of you. He took care of you.
And then he got in this deal in the Common Market, so
he went to Europe. I don't know how many times he
went to Europe on this Common Market operation,
but he was a good friend of Earl Rudder. I'm not sure
what class. I think President Rudder was younger
than Ty was. They were both in the 30s someplace,
class of 30-something. And Lupo was a good friend
of Ty's, and so he would be around once in a while.
But Ty was... He was a nice fellow, and he was very
hospitable, very Texan. He reminded me a lot.
Lyndon Johnson reminded me of Ty, the best parts of
Lyndon Johnson. You know, he'd almost embrace
you. And so I have fond memories of Ty. I think he
took pretty good care of you. Did you and your
colleagues have the impression that he was in
charge? Oh, yeah, yeah, no question about it in
those times. Ty was the head. Within the school of
agriculture, it would have been before the
university, within the school of agriculture,
what status did you all think we had among the
department?
Well,
I never went to the library and checked the
salaries of all these other departments to see who
was doing better, but we were sort of the social
science, we were the social science of
agriculture, and not being a tech department is
not always, I don't think you're always
appreciated as much by other tech departments as a
social science department. So I'm not sure how
others felt about him, but I think he did, given who
he was and where he was and who he represented, I
thought he did a pretty good job. Let me say this. He
liked for you to go through channels, because I
remember the day that Snow White, who was a
graduate student in the third floor restroom, I
was in it. There were four restrooms in the Ag
building, one female restroom on the basement
floor. And this was in the mid to late 60s. And Snow
White and her friends came into this restroom and
said, we're going to take this to the women. And
they did. and
eventually became
a female rescue, but the tie was extremely because
they didn't go through the channel. They should
have gone through . As with much of A&M. I remember
that incident. You mentioned salary comparison.
Where in that era could a person have found a
faculty member Well,
when I got here, I don't think you could find it
anywhere. I don't know where you would have found
it. It wasn't, you know better than I, but I forget
when it was. And one time I did go to the library in
the periodical room and look at the budget. And I
still had trouble figuring out. In agriculture,
because people were paid from two, maybe three
sources. what their actual compensation
was. But no, in the early days, unless somebody
told you, you didn't know what. I think the only
place was at the state library. Was it? All right.
In those early years, you were paid from the
teaching budget. I got two checks. Literally two
different sections. One from TA and C, and one from
TAX. But not the extension? No, I wasn't
interested. Very few people, when I got here, I
don't know anybody who had a three-way
appointment. There may have been other times.
Everybody was either teaching, most were
teaching research, and then you were extension.
You weren't both. Now, over time, some people
began to carry a little bit
of extension, and then some extension people
began to carry teaching positions, joints. And
there may be some now that
are all free, but they wouldn't be free. I think Tom
and I can be all free. So, you know, early in the
year, what would have been the average
percentage? One-third or one-third? Yeah,
as I recall, yeah. And mostly, we mostly
researched. Speaking, we had, well, I forget how
many courses we had. I'd like to check, but most
everybody just taught one or two courses. When
you, in the early years, when you got here and then
two years after, describe as many as you have.
Vice
President of University of Florida. .
Gosh, you've caught me here because I know they're
there. I just can't. Well, but what about some of
these other longtime, Bob Branson, describe him.
Well, Bob came here. Bob was a Harvard man, SMU at
Harvard. And Bob is a workaholic. He is in
marketing. And he's always doing this. He still is
in his 80s working, doing surveys, working with
savings and loans or real estate people. Or at that
time, he was working with marketing companies.
with firms, with grocery stores, with packers and
shippers. And Bob stayed here the whole time. Bob
was not all that big on publishing, at least in the
journals, but he got a lot of reports out. But he
just loved to do those kind of studies. He was an
interesting individual. And is still active,
even though he's been retired, I guess, 10 years or
more, maybe more. McNeely, John McNeely was head
of research John was from North Dakota. I remember
he used to make the statement that a lot of good ag
economists came out of North Dakota because
people would do almost anything to get out of North
Dakota. But he's right. There was a
disproportionate number of noted agricultural
economists came out of the Dakotas. And John was
the research head, and he published some. He was in
marketing. But he stayed here the rest of his
career. Pat Wooten was graduate teaching. I don't
think Pat I don't think Pat published much at all.
He just did the graduate teaching stuff and taught
himself. J.C. Grady came here from Missouri as
head of the undergraduate section, and he was
leader of that for years and taught. Now, he was
probably the closest thing we had to a full-time
teacher.
Peter Berry came through here and is now a fellow in
the association, but he's at Illinois. A lot of,
you know, I can't recall all these names. Jim
Hildreth
came here from Illinois and quickly became
associate director of the Experiment Station and
then went to the Farm Foundation in Chicago, and
he's been there ever since, retired some time
back. He was a well-known economist. One of the
names you mentioned a while ago, legendary, was
this man Reagan Brown. Reagan Brown, yes. Scribe
Reagan Brown. Reagan Brown, I mean, he had the best
stories. I'm not sure what the content of Reagan's
speeches were, but he was constant
entertainment. He was the most entertaining
speaker I think I've ever heard as far as humor
goes, and not second and patriotic either in terms
of putting on a patriotic show. Reagan was a rural
sociologist,
which was interesting that he would be in
sociology because I think most people thought
sociology was a bit of a liberal field. But he was a
real sociologist, probably may have had a
master's degree, may have had a master's degree,
I'm not sure. But he was the ultimate Texan, very
straight-laced, and could tell stories ad
infinitum. And a helpful guy, cordial. And he was a
good emcee, emceed lots of things around here.
You'll recall that Hal Brown emceed something
Reagan was supposed to. But he was legendary. Was
he helpful as a colleague? Well, I never dealt with
anything in rural sociology, so I didn't deal with
him directly. There was a rural sociology section
within the sociology part of our department. And
then later, of course, sociology moved out. But,
yeah, if you wanted help, But again, I think
probably I suffered career-wise from not going to
people, not knowing enough to go to people for
help. I just did my own thing. But I never found
anybody who wasn't helpful of the Texan-type
staff. Who became your closest departmental
buddies in the 60s, in the early years? Well, there
was a guy named Jim Graves who's now at Texas Tech
and is retired. And that was partly because we were
about the same age and our children were similar
ages. Jim was a buddy. Rod Martin, who is a
production economist. It used to be, in the old
days, when the government had more money, the
federal government, that...
Lonnie
Jones, who's still in our faculty, he's a little
younger than I am, was a good friend. He was in
marketing at the time. And our families were
similar. And that was in the early days. Those guys
and other, well, Russell Pops and Hal Brown, but
Hal wasn't here at home. And Russell wasn't here a
whole lot longer. Of the faculty that are close to
Lonnie. And that, I'm sure, means something else.
Of course,
then I got to meet, fortunately, historians and
other people whom we became good or better friends
with. And in those early years, what was your
normal daily routine? What time did you get to the
office, lunch, and go to work? Well, you needed to
be at the office pretty close to 8 o'clock. That was
expected. And you could take an hour for lunch, but
you better be there... Pretty much till 12 and
start again at 1 and be there till 5. In fact, there
was a whistle. There was a whistle on the water
tower. I remember the mill whistle when I was a kid
growing up. There was a row of mills in my home town.
It made honeydew flowers. And there
was a whistle. It would blow at 8, it would blow at
12, it would blow at 1, it would blow at 5. And it was
the same thing here. On the water tower, there was a
big steam gun whistle. Did you and other faculty
members watch that whistle? Well, being
sophisticated intellectuals, we felt that was a
bit mundane and beneath us to have to pay attention
to the whistle, which we didn't. But we were there
from 8 to 12 and 1 to 5. Do you remember if anybody
ever heard of it?
Oh,
yeah. When I got here.
In those early years, did you and your colleagues
take coffee breaks? Yeah, we did. There was a
coffee room on the third floor of the building on
the south end, and we did go meet frequently there.
It wasn't formal or anything, but then that was
mostly the research teaching guys. The extension
guys would get in the car or cars and drive over to
the Ramada Inn and drink their coffee. Once in a
while, we'd walk over to the MSC. Of course, the
campus wasn't crowded then. There was no problem.
In fact, I don't remember even having a parking
sticker when I first got here. You just drove up and
parked where you wanted to. But yeah, there was
more collegiality then in terms of coffee breaks
than there are now. In fact, we used to have a
seminar. I don't know if you remember this, but
this was interdepartmental at the YMCA. There was
a seminar once a week, and And some people talked
about their discipline. Some people talked about
the sailboats. I mean, Ed Doran over in
meteorology talked about sailing. Somebody
else, I talked about carrots. John Tracy talked
about whatever he wanted to. And that was a good
thing. But that wasn't a coffee break. That was a
seminar once a week. And isn't that what we call the
brown bag seminar? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I thought it
was. How did you get back and forth from the campus?
Well, let's see. I think I got a bicycle almost
immediately, which was not unique. But it was
almost unique. When we moved here, we lived on
Nagel, about four blocks from the campus north in
Bryan. And so I got a 10-speed bicycle, ancient
Schwinn, bought from somebody west of town. And I
rode that thing to work. Because we only had one
car. And if you only had one car, then your wife
couldn't go anywhere if you had the car at work. So I
rode the bike and have almost ever since. Now,
surely you had some interesting experiences in
certain days of weather with your suit. Well,
yeah, you had to wear a raincoat. Or if it was really
bad, then I'd get Peggy to bring me to work. But,
yeah. Yeah, you had to watch out for the weather. It
seems to me like, I may be wrong, it used to rain a lot
more down here than it does now. It was humid in the
summer and the wintertime, but not. And where was
the parking lot for the agriculture building?
Right behind it. I mean, you didn't have to spend
much time going from your car to the building.
Describe the diversity of the faculty of the
department. You mean what I got here? Mm-hmm.
Well, it wasn't real diverse. I'm trying to think
that... Now, of course, Ty had a degree from
somewhere else. The Head did, and Branson did, and
I imagine McNeely did. He probably from North
Dakota. But most people had their degrees from
Texas A&M. It was not real diverse. What about
their ethnic diversity? Oh, all-white male,
period. I mean, that was all-white male... Now,
Stelly was a Cajun. Randall Stelly from
Louisiana. What was his specialty? He was milk
marketing. He was a dairy marketing specialist.
And were there any internationally born?
Internationally born? No. Somebody from outside
the U.S.? No. They were all U.S. nationals from
birth? And as far as you can recall, all U.S.
degrees? Yes. And about how many, what was the
percentage of PhDs, you reckon? Well, it would be
low. 50-50? No, no, not nearly that high. No, I
would say maybe. Of course, the question, well,
how do you figure the faculty? Do you figure the
extension guys in there or what? But of the whole,
what we would consider when we had a faculty
meeting, which would include the extension
people, I would think not more than a fourth. at
that time, if that many. In a departmental
discussion, was there any obvious difference in
the prestige clout of those that were extension
primarily compared with those that were teaching
and research? Well, in fact, I don't think so. We
may have thought so because we had degrees, but The
extension guys were the older, been in the Hornets
longer, probably had more pull than did the
younger so-called degreed faculty at that time.
But, you know, people in research teaching
probably thought they were more important than
extension and vice versa. But I didn't notice any,
there's always been a little, what do you call it,
between Extension and the research teaching
people. I think it's gotten less over the years
because we've gotten more joint appointments.
But the Extension guys thought they were doing
more applied, more practical work than the
research teachers. In those early days, do you
remember any big departmental decision that
there was a lot of pulling and tugging on and how it
finally came out?
Oh, well, we had some big departmental studies,
but I don't recall, you know, I probably will when
you leave, but anything of momentous, like name
change wasn't an issue then. Now, today, it's name
change. What should we change our name to? Not
then, that wasn't a problem. I don't know how the
decision was made to separate sociology from
agricultural economics. never entered my realm.
So offhand, no, I don't. What was the departmental
reaction to the campus decision to admit women and
non-compulsory core and racial integration and
broaden the curriculum and change the name of the
institution?
Well, I think that most of it was welcomed. I think
we were quote, academic enough that we identified
with the needs to do that. And I'm not sure if you
talk to the old timers. Like, I don't know what
Reagan's position. It'd be interesting to know
what Reagan's position would have been on that,
Reagan Brown. But I think they almost realized the
necessity, if this place was going to stay in
business, as sort of like President Rudder
presented it, that we had to do that. And
welcoming... Yeah, I think most of them welcomed
it. You'll remember the aspiration study of 62,
which some of us actually read. I think most of the
faculty were fairly progressive on that. When we
got our first faculty female, we were not as
supportive of her as we should, and the old dip in
redneck cowboy contingent of the student body, I
think almost literally ran her off. She was just
not accepted. About when was that, do you know? Oh,
I'm trying to, I really, I remember her name was
Judy, and I can't think of Judy's last name. That
had to be, what, early 70s, late 60s, or maybe early
70s. How long was she here? Not long, two, three
years. Yeah, not long. And she was teaching one of
the toughest courses, too. So I don't think that
was done on purpose. But she just, well, there were
some yahoos in there. And as I recall, that was a
rumor that she just couldn't take it. And I can
believe that. You mean these were students?
Students, yeah, students. Not the faculty, but
students. How did the faculty treat her? Well, as I
recall, she was treated okay. I mean, I don't
remember any disparaging behavior. Did she, as
far as you know, did she complain about the way the
department treated her ever? Well, not to me. I
mean, I didn't hear it. She may have, who knows? I
don't know. Not that I know of. It's been a long
time. All right, let's go back. In your first, the
first courses that you teach, what was your
impression of Aggie students? Well, you know,
relative to what? Because I hadn't taught. I had
been an instructor to a little extent at Penn
State. And my impression of students were they
were mostly core at that time. They were
respectful, courteous, not necessarily all
valedictorians, but they were well-behaved. And
at that time, of course, most of them were
well-dressed and well-kempt. It wasn't the
Vietnam thing had not come along then. Not that
that mattered much at this point down here. But
easy to deal with, not close to the faculty in the
sense of none of the buddy-buddy stuff, you know.
They pretty well...